My name is Kara Zor-El,
I'm from Krypton.
I'm a refugee on this planet.
I was sent to Earth
to protect my cousin.
But my pod
got knocked off course.
And by the time I got here,
my cousin had already grown up
and become... Superman.
I hid who I really was
until one day
when an accident forced me
to reveal myself to the world.
To most people, I'm a reporter
at CatCo Worldwide Media.
But in secret I work
with my adopted sister
and my friends
to protect my city from anyone
that means to cause it harm.
I am Supergirl.
Previously on Supergirl...
The Phantom nested
inside of him.
After a short
incubation period,
the victim's life force
leaves the body.
They can now
make new Phantoms?
The Phantom's created
a new Progeny
to destroy innocent people.
Where's M'gann?
She said that
she was going on patrol.
No!
What if there is a way
that we can harness
your piece of M'gann's soul
to stop her from turning.
M'gann.
Kara!
-Father?
Until yesterday,
I thought my father
was dead.
Are you
a Fifth-Dimensional imp?
My magic is back.
Let's go save your father.
My mother built this Anchor
that tethers this place
to the rest of the universe.
And there is a way out.
You mean my magic?
There's only one way
to find out.
Here we go!
That Phantom almost made it
through your portal with us.
I can still feel him,
like shards of ice
coursing through my veins.
No one said pocket-jumping
through the Phantom Zone
was for the faint of heart.
This is getting to you.
I can see it.
The Phantom chills,
the terror,
it's becoming too much.
Don't be
such a killjoy, Papa El.
Because I think I found
what we're looking for.
The Anchor.
We're going home.
Brainy, we've got five
Prime Phantom Progeny
in containment.
It's getting a little crowded
down there.
I'll prepare
another containment unit.
How many containment units
does that make now?
Is that four?
Supergirl would have
stopped this by now.
And that brings us to the end
of our Tower tour.
Thanks, Nia.
First days always make me feel
like an awkward school girl,
so thanks to you all
for making me feel so welcome.
I'd like to say
on behalf of us all,
how great it is to have you
with us in the trenches.
Finally.
M'gann, you should be resting.
I had a vision
of Prime Phantom's lair.
I think I'm still connected
to the hive mind
of Prime and his Progeny.
But how is that
even possible?
When J'onn transfused his piece
of M'gann's soul back into her,
it was just that, a piece,
and not the original soul
in its entirety.
I estimate
M'gann is still about
18% Phantom.
I hate that you're still linked
in any way to his kind.
But don't you see?
It's good news.
Phantoms have the power
to sense a person's life force.
That means that
I have that power, too.
I can use it to hone in
on a specific life force
anywhere,
even in the Phantom Zone.
I can find Supergirl.
-Are you serious?
-We're gonna bring Kara home.
It also means that M'gann
can use her power to sense
the life forces held captive
in the Prime Phantom's lair.
There's a 99.999% probability
that once we find
and release them,
they'll immediately return
to their rightful owner,
thus restoring the Progeny.
Prime will have his Progeny
protecting his lair.
We'll have to be careful
around those talons.
I may already have
a fix for that.
I couldn't wait to get started,
so I stayed up all last night
and made this.
I merged a DEO protogun
and L-Corp's portal energy.
What is it?
Well, I call it a Prototrap.
It's designed to trap
Prime Phantom and
his Progeny hands-free
and transport them
directly to containment.
Just like in Ghostbusters.
-Except that's a movie.
-It's the perfect movie.
-The Prototrap is real.
-Okay.
Rescuing Supergirl and stopping
the Phantom infection.
I was afraid it was
never gonna happen.
The Progeny
are hurting again.
There's a cold
signature forming
at the Noonan's
in Grand Central Station.
I'll monitor it from here.
May I?
Brainy, aren't you gonna
want instructions?
I'm a 12th-level
intellect, Lena.
I'll figure it out.
It's a macchiato mess.
Brainy, Prototrap.
Watch out for his talons.
-Should've stuck to decaf.
-Look.
Her life force is leaving her.
Track it to
Prime Phantom's lair.
Let's help M'gann...
You okay?
J'onn.
No...
-M'gann.
-She's in trouble.
-Go, we've got this.
There's been
a precipitous drop
in air temperature.
The Prime Phantom,
look at his size.
He grows bigger
with every life force captured.
He's fighting it.
We're gonna need a bigger gun.
M'Gann, J'onn,
the Prime Phantom got away.
Sorry.
I usually have super strength.
I can just kick those down.
Are you sure this is right?
I mean,
wouldn't it be too obvious
if they put the exit
where you'd expect it?
The other buildings
are barracks.
Supply room is built
for the Fort Rozz
prison guards.
I know it's in here.
It should look like a mirror.
That only the righteous
can activate.
Instead of a reflection,
you see your home...
and walk right through.
Oh, no.
What? What's the problem?
Kara, activate it.
I need to be sure.
What do you see?
Just us.
It's not working.
I was wrong to have hoped.
The exit can't be broken.
Not after everything
we've been through.
Nyxly, your magic.
Can you fix it?
I'll try.
I knew this was
a waste of time.
What, you're just
going to give up?
Father, please.
Please, think of everything
we've accomplished already.
We made an ally
where there were
only enemies.
We found magic
where there was only misery.
We found each other
after decades apart.
We can't give up now.
Not after all of that.
What else is there to do?
The mirror can't be fixed.
Maybe not,
but you knew Mother
better than anyone.
And you know she never would
have left her guards stranded,
so think.
What would she have done?
She would have built
a second mirror.
Yes. Where?
The supply rooms.
I remember
following this life force
when I felt this tremendous
force pushing at me.
It was like a part of me
was draining away,
and then I saw I was
turning into a Progeny again.
The double soul dilemma.
M'gann's original soul
is with the others
in the Prime Phantom's lair.
When she flew too close to it,
the piece that is
her transfused soul
sensed the original
and they repelled each other
like magnets.
That's why I was turning again.
I was close to having
no soul in me.
Based on
the rate of Prime's
accelerated growth
and disembodiment,
he'll soon reach full maturity.
What happens after that?
He'll become unstoppable...
and it will be impossible
to release the life forces
held in his lair.
That's what happened
on Planet Dheron.
A Phantom was
released there, too.
And just like Prime,
he grew with every
life force he took
until he became
completely disembodied.
A small band
of brave Dheronians
found the Chrysalis holding
the captured life forces.
But its shell had hardened
when the Phantom reached
full maturity.
Even with their most
powerful weapons,
they were unable
to breach it.
The souls were
locked in forever.
We need to find the Chrysalis
before it fully hardens.
Great Sprock.
If we release the life forces
from the Chrysalis,
M'gann will get
her original soul back.
But then she'll lose
her sensing power
to find Supergirl
in the Phantom Zone.
Then we have to find Supergirl
before that happens.
No. Absolutely not.
First we need to focus
on defeating Prime
and releasing
the captured life forces.
-But J'onn--
-If we don't act now,
not only will National City
be lost...
but the infection will reach
a point of a no return.
A global pandemic.
If we only go after Kara,
she'll come back
to find another Phantom Zone
right here on Earth.
Okay, then we do both.
We rescue Kara
and we defeat Prime.
Guys, we can do this.
We can do anything
if we just put our minds
together.
We always find a way.
Absolutely. There's got to
be another way
to find Prime's Lair.
There is still a way,
if we combine M'gann's
sensing power
and Dreamer's ability
to astral project.
So I'll work on a way
to try and copy
M'gann's sensing power
to track Supergirl.
See, it's win-win.
You heard the lady,
let's go.
-Hey, thanks for backing me up.
-No, of course.
Okay. So what
are you thinking?
Q-waves. I use them
to replicate Malefic's powers.
I believe I can do the same
with M'gann's
sensing abilities.
And the nanobots?
I'm gonna task them
to map the brains of
the Progeny in containment
to create a device,
but even if I am able do that,
I'm gonna need
a piece of Kara's DNA
to calibrate the device
to the right frequency
in order to track her.
I know where we can find some.
Hey.
You okay?
You had a dream when we were
at Noonan's, didn't you?
The same one.
Kara and Alex in high school.
And I don't know why I keep
dreaming it, or what it means.
Are you okay?
You've practically inhaled
every donut in that box.
Strawberry glaze with sprinkles
is a rare delicacy.
That is true.
But I know what
this is, Brainy.
With your inhibitors off,
you're feeling
a lot of emotions
right now.
Lena advised me
to embrace them.
Right now,
you're not embracing them,
you're eating them.
Mmm.
I've been there.
Kara and Alex, too.
Their dumpling obsession.
A donut can't be there
for you...
but I'm here if you wanna talk.
-It's not a problem, Nia.
-Okay.
Well, I can stop comfort eating
whenever I want.
Okay.
Twenty-four storage rooms
and still no mirror.
Kara! Nyxly!
I found it!
What happened?
It was the prisoner with
the scar that captured me.
He must have
been following us.
He attacked your father
and then he tried
to take the mirror,
but I chased him off.
I knew we shouldn't
have split up.
-I think my ankle is broken.
-Okay, don't move.
Okay. Slowly.
-Nyxly, can you
do anything to help?
-I'll try.
My magic is still depleted.
I'm sorry.
I still don't get why I can't
get anything right today.
I never should have
left the two of you alone,
defenseless.
I could have prevented this.
This is not your fault.
It was my decision to split up.
You saved his life.
It will take both of us
to get this mirror
all the way back to the Anchor.
Who's going to
help your father?
He can't even stand.
Just leave me here.
No.
No. Absolutely not.
This area isn't safe
for anyone with Scar
and the Phantoms roaming.
Please, just take this mirror
to the Anchor,
activate the exit
and if it works,
you can come back for me.
He has a point, Kara.
If we don't
get him to the exit,
his wounds will never heal.
Father, I can't just
leave you here.
I'll barricade the door.
I'll be safe.
No. I won't.
Please.
No one's called me that
in decades.
We'll come back for you
as soon as we can.
Family isn't about blood
or last names.
It's about the people
who love you
for who you are
and stand by you
no matter what.
And just as my sister Alex
has always been there for me,
so have my friends.
They're my family, too.
Anything is possible when
you have family who
love and support you.
It's so amazing
to see and hear Kara.
Feels so real.
I mean, I know she's not
here with us, but...
She'll be here soon.
I know it.
We may not always agree,
and at times that may
break us apart,
but in the end, we always
come back together,
stronger than ever.
Hold on, sis.
We're coming.
The core of this crystal
contains Kara's
digital life force.
I would like you to use it
for the device.
What?
You said you need a piece
of my sister
to track her
in the Phantom Zone.
Yeah, but if I
extract that, you'll lose
the recording forever.
Well, what matters most
is that we get back
the real Kara.
And you said that life force
can do that, right?
Yeah, I mean, I'm hopeful,
but there's no guarantee.
I trust you.
Thank you.
Um...
I'll let you know
when I'm done.
I'm gonna stay.
I would like to help.
Well, suit up.
M'gann will use
her sensing powers
to find the highest
concentration of life forces.
That should be
Prime Phantom's lair.
Hopefully,
in locating the lair,
you'll be able to ascertain
the condition of the Chrysalis.
In particular,
any hardening of
its outer shell.
-You ready?
-Let's do this.
All right, looking for clues.
Come on,
they're counting
on you.
Still translucent.
-Are you all right?
-It was horrible. I'm so cold.
-Are you okay?
-Midvale.
I saw Midvale again.
So, is that where the lair is?
I don't think so.
I'm sorry.
But there's something else.
The Chrysalis,
it's turning solid.
We're running out of time.
Based on what Dreamer
just witnessed,
I've calculated that
the Chrysalis will
become impenetrable,
trapping the lost life forces
in one hour's time.
Our only hope now is
to find that Chrysalis
before that happens.
If we release all of
the life forces back to
their rightful owners,
we'll cure everyone at once
and disempower
the Prime Phantom.
Well, we can't do that
until we find the Chrysalis.
I can lead us to it.
No. No, M'gann.
If you get too close,
you'll transform.
-I'm not gonna lose you again.
-We have no other choice.
Actually, we do.
It took some work,
but it's finished.
With this, we will be able to
find Kara in the Phantom Zone.
We'll finally be able
to bring her home.
Not today.
Look, in less than an hour,
the Chrysalis will harden over,
trapping all those souls
inside it forever.
Plus more people are
getting infected by Phantoms
every minute.
It's spreading like a plague.
Now, I know how hard you
worked on making a device
that can track Kara.
But now we need
to recalibrate it
so that we can find
the Chrysalis instead.
But if we recalibrate it,
we'll overwrite Kara's DNA.
We'll lose our only chance
to save her.
We'll find another way.
There's always another way.
-She taught us that.
-We have a way now.
How can you choose
to save anyone else
over your own sister?
Because if I don't,
countless lives will be lost.
Kara would always choose
saving others.
That's just who she is.
And how do you think she would
feel if we rescued her
and she found out
that we let thousands,
maybe hundreds of thousands
of people die,
just so we could
have her back?
Supergirl relies on those
that she loves
to follow her example.
So please don't make this
any harder than it already is.
Give me the device.
Alex, I hear what you're
saying...
but I have to bring Kara back.
You see, it's my fault.
It was my brother who sent her
to the Phantom Zone,
it was my experiments
that empowered him.
It was my war with Supergirl
that started all of this.
So if this is my only chance
to make it right,
then I have to do it.
Okay, Lena, listen to me.
Nobody blames you for this.
Kara doesn't
blame you for this.
You two already
forgave each other
for everything
that happened in the past.
So it's time for you
to forgive yourself.
And all that really matters
is that you did
the right thing today.
So, please give me
the tracking device.
I'm sorry,
but I can't take no
for an answer.
One, two, three.
Okay.
It's Home...
It's beautiful.
Let's go find my father.
Kara, we can't.
-It's too dangerous.
-What? No.
Kara, honey. I know you
believe the best in people.
But don't you understand?
Your father is beyond saving.
He's been holding you back
ever since you got here.
Even today, you saw
just how quickly he was
ready to give up.
But he pushed through that.
He got us here.
He also stuck you in a pod
when you were just a child
and sent you
to a foreign planet alone.
He banished you, Kara,
just like my father
banished me.
I'm sorry about what
your dad did to you.
Truly, I am.
But I'm going back for him,
whether you're
coming with me or not.
I should have
just slit his throat
when I had the chance.
I was going to.
I was this close.
Instead, I conjured myself up
as Scar and I knocked
him out instead.
I let him live for you.
You're the one
who attacked him?
Mmm-hmm.
You wanted me to activate
the exit because it wouldn't
activate for you.
Oh! Don't act so shocked.
You wanted to
be free of him,
just like I want to be free
of my father.
You were just too weak
to get rid of him yourself.
Hurting an innocent man
doesn't make you
powerful, Nyxly.
I know what makes me powerful.
And the power
that I have here
is only a shadow
of what I'll have
once I get to Earth.
Hmm.
I was going to go straight home
to the Fifth Dimension
to punish everyone
who didn't stand by me.
But you activated the exit.
In order for me
to get to my home,
I'll have to go through yours.
And you know what?
I think I'm gonna
have a little fun
while I'm there.
Over my dead body.
If I was a creepy Phantom,
where would I keep my lair?
Oh, I know. The sewers.
It's getting cold in here.
We must be close.
This way.
Which way?
This way looks promising.
Alex...
run!
-Brainy! Brainy!
-No!
Don't. Don't.
Get to the Chrysalis. Go!
No. Come on. Come on.
Up we go.
It's a Phantom Zone
on Earth.
No matter what happens,
don't stop.
No! No!
Sentinel, do it now.
You know, this is fun.
But it gets old after a while.
Prisoner interference detected.
Self-destruct activated.
The impact must have activated
the self-destruct.
We have to get out of here.
The only way I'm leaving here
is through that exit.
I can't let you do that.
Go ahead.
Take your best shot.
You and I both know
that can't hurt me.
I know.
No.
-No, no, no.
-Nyxly, we have to go.
Nyxly... Nyxly, now.
No!
Self-destruct in five, four,
three, two, one.
Thank you.
You were right about
the Chrysalis.
I'm sorry I fought you on it.
I understand why you did.
That's a decision
I didn't wanna have to make.
But you still made it.
Listen, I am so grateful
to be a part of the team
here in the Tower,
but I don't think I belong.
Why would you say that?
Well, it's like you said.
I need to stop atoning
for the sins of the past.
And I am determined
to do good in
the world, but...
You and J'onn,
Brainy and Nia,
I'm not like you.
You're true heroes.
I know how much
your sister
means to you, Alex,
and yet, today you made
the most painful sacrifice
because it was
the right thing to do...
and I don't think
I could do that.
Every moment I was running
towards that Chrysalis
I wanted to turn around.
I didn't care if that Phantom
took over the whole city
or the whole world.
I wanted nothing more
than to drop everything
and go after my sister.
I had to rely on my years
of training as a soldier
to help me push
those feelings aside
so that I could do
what had to be done.
You've have
a huge heart, Lena.
And wanting to save Kara,
that doesn't make you
any less of a hero.
Yeah, maybe not.
But I still
don't think like you.
Neither does Brainy.
Or J'onn, or Nia.
I mean, we all have
different life experiences
and perspectives
and strengths.
It's our willingness
to hear each other out,
that's what makes
this a great team.
And if it weren't for
your brilliance
in making that device,
we all would have failed.
You belong here, Lena.
You always have
and you always will.
And besides, you are
the only with a decent
taste in Scotch.
In spite of everything
we went through today,
we're are still
back at square one.
No closer to getting
Supergirl back.
And no matter
how many donuts I eat,
this hopeless feeling
just won't go away.
I feel it, too.
I've had more dreams
about Midvale.
What do you think they mean?
I don't know.
I'm scared, Brainy.
These dream flashes of Midvale,
Kara and Alex in high school.
They keep happening,
confusing me, and I don't
know how to stop them
or interpret them.
I just wish
my mom was here.
Look, I'm sorry
you don't have your mom.
But you have me.
We have each other.
The Prime Phantom
will never hurt you,
or anybody else, ever again.
-I'm glad you're okay.
-Me? I almost lost you
today, too.
Well, now you know
how it feels.
If only there was a way
to use Prime to make
a new tracking device.
I mean, if he was part human,
like the Progeny.
I tried searching his mind,
trying to convince him
to look for Kara...
but all I could sense
was thirst and misery.
He has no humanity,
only instinct.
Instinct. The Phantom,
he tracks by instinct.
He's a bloodhound.
If we can get our hands
on more of Kara's DNA...
Then he'll track her
by instinct.
It's a good idea,
but the hologram crystal
is broken.
How are we gonna get
more of Kara's DNA?
We can collect DNA
from a Kryptonian
after a solar flare.
Or Kryptonite poisoning.
Alex, can you remember
all the times Kara
blew her powers out?
It's only happened
a handful of times.
Once was in a fight
with Red Tornado
and then another was
all the way back
in high school.
-Back in Midvale?
-Yeah.
Nia.
Cassandra,
this is what my dreams
have been about.
If we want to bring Kara home,
we have to go back in time...
to Midvale High.
I just hope
we're not too late.